# Arduino Safe Locking Project

## Overview
This is an Arduino project of mine, originally made for school back in early 2020. This readme will cover tha majority of the docuemntation for this project, though a day by day breakdown of the project's development can be found within the **_"Documentation"_** folder of the repository.
### Original Concept
The gist of the project will be to design an arduino device with a wifi chip and a keypad (the actual lock won’t be incorporated into the design as it is just for demonstrative purposes (simply a solenoid that would retract a bolt). 
An LCD will also be used to show whether the lock is open or closed, the password you typed in, etc. When a passcode is typed into the lock, a notification (most likely in terms of a text message) will be sent to the phone number of the owner (which will be determined during the lock setup). It will notify the owner of the attempt to open the lock and wait for an input (if it is the correct password) (this will also as a text message, either “accept” or “deny”) effectively a two step authorization process (if the password is incorrect, the owner will simply receive a notification warning of a potential security hazard. 
At this point, the LCD will also display a warning of 1 of 3 attempts before a 1 hr lockdown period. If more than 3 of these cycles (3 attempts and 1 hr waits) are performed and the password is still wrong, or if the casing of the lock is opened (will be simulated by breaking the contact or 2 magnetic switches/sensors), the owner will receive a notification asking if they want to notify the authorities.). A fingerprint scanner will then be activated to confirm the identity of the owner. If the identity is then identified as correct, the lock will open and the owner will receive a notification of the lock being successfully unlocked while the LCD displays a welcome message. If the fingerprint is detected as different after 5 attempts, the lock will lockdown for 3 hours and the owner will be notified with a new temporary passcode (as the current one is most likely breached) as well as the warning of potential security threats.
### Revised Release